Okay.
So we are still in the sub NAF component.
And now I'd like you to focus on these two lines of code right here.
Lines 26 through 27.
And my question to you is, if another component needed to use the exact same filter jobs getter, which
we know is the case.
Right, because in sub nav, we're using filter jobs to get the amount of jobs, but we're also using
this filter jobs getter to determine the actual array of jobs that we render on the right hand side,
the actual filter job listings.
So we know that we have to use this getter in multiple locations.
And my question to you is, if we had another component that needed the same logic, what would the
code look like?
So if you take a look at what we're doing here, we're using use store to get a store, and then we're
using the computed function to talk to that reactive store object.
And we have to know that that has a getters property and we have to know that there is a filter jobs
property on that.
And if we were to repeat this logic in another component, the actual implementation code would look
exactly the same.
In our first example.
For this one, we at least have to provide a custom argument of the string we want to match here.
The code for accent getter would look the exact same in any other component.
So I argue this is a perfect piece of code to refactor and move into its own composable function, a
simple composable function that gets the York store and knows how to talk to a getter and return a reactive
object, holding that piece of information that any component is welcome to use.
So let's turn that into a reality.
So right here, I'm going to open up my file Explorer.
And in the source directory, we're, we're storing all of our view X related functionality in the store
directory here, all of our files.
So in here, I'm going to create a new file called Composable.
Yes.
I'm going to drag this over to the right hand side.
When I'm basically going to do is copy this exact implementation.
So I know that I'm going to need a computed function from view.
I know that I'm going to need the use store function from view X.
And here actually we were accessing the property directly to filter jobs.
That actually is a mistake.
We kind of kind of defeats the entire purpose of creating those constants that we export to avoid the
chance of typos.
So in our actual implementation here, let's correct that mistake by importing our filter jobs name
from our Constance file.
So right here I'll import the actual filter jobs constant name.
And that is going to come from not this relative import but rather the source directory store constants.
And here I can describe my function.
So right here I'm going to export const since I anticipate there's not going to be a single default
export but rather multiple composable later on.
I'm just going to do a regular export here.
I'm going to export a function called use filter jobs.
And the responsibility of this composable function will be to talk to view acts and get me my filter
jobs.
So right here.
How do I get access to my future store?
By using use store.
So let me invoke that and assign that to a constant called store.
And then we're going to do the exact same thing we did right here.
We're going to run our computed function.
We're going to provide it the function we want to rerun whenever the store changes.
And in the store, I specifically want to watch the getters.
And which getter do I care about the filter jobs getter.
Instead of using the dot syntax as we're doing right here, I'm going to use the square bracket syntax
which is valid in JavaScript.
And the only way that we can provide a dynamic key such as this filter jobs constant right here, which
of course is just a string filter jobs.
But the reason we do this is just to avoid any chance of typos.
Whatever this constant is, is the exact same name we gave the getter in our actual definition file.
So this will ensure no chance of typos.
And final thing, that's very important.
I need to make sure that I return that computed function or that computed reactive object as the final
return value of my use filter jobs function.
All right.
So obviously we can now use this composable function in our component.
But before we do that, I want to very quickly add a test suite for this thing as well.
So let's open up our explorer.
And in the tests unit, store directory, I'm going to create a new test file just for composable and
I'll call it composable.
Test that.
Yes.
All right.
Let me drag that over here to the left hand side.
So we're going to swap things a little bit.
Our implementation is on the right.
So I'm going to apply the exact same principles here.
I'm not going to use a real view store.
I'm just going to import, use, store and mock it out and have it be whatever object is good enough
to fulfill what this function needs to run.
So I need a plain JavaScript object that's going to have a getters property set to another object with
a filter jobs property.
And that should be good enough to test that this function is doing everything it's supposed to.
So right here I'm going to import the used store function and that is going to come from view X.
Then immediately afterwards.
I'm going to mock our view.
So now Jess has gone through and created mock functions for everything, including use store.
Then I'm going to import the actual thing I'm testing, which is the use filter jobs function and that
is coming from source store composable.
Here I'm going to describe that I am testing my use filter jobs composable.
In fact, why don't we wrap this in a larger category of composable, since I imagine there's going
to be multiple ones later on.
Zoom is going to create a composable described block.
Provide my arrow function here and nest this test or rather this described lock inside here.
All right.
And what is the use filter jobs composable function responsible for doing?
I can just say something like it retrieves filter jobs from store.
So as always, I'm going to remind you that a just mock function by default returns undefined.
So if we were to invoke use store right here or in our in our actual function, when we run it, we're
going to get undefined.
That's not good enough because we need a more complex object.
So right here, I'm going to mark my return value and I'm going to make it a JavaScript object.
We know that we need a getters property and then we know that we need to filter jobs here because we're
going to access it.
So I'm going to write filter jobs and here I'm going to provide a sample return value or a sample value.
It doesn't really matter what we put as long as we test for it below.
But right here I'm just going to say an array and let's provide a sample object in here with an idea
of one just so we have something somewhat close to a job.
All right, so now we've marked out what used store is going to return to us.
So now I can invoke my use filter jobs, composable function, capture that return value in a result
and remember result is going to be this computed reactive object.
So in order to get what it's storing inside it, we once again have to access the value property.
So we don't want to check what result is.
We want to check what result that value is.
And if our logic ran correctly and we properly extracted using the store object and access getters and
access filter jobs, what we expect to get back is this array right here.
So this should equal an array with a single object, with an idea of one which proves we access the
right piece of information.
Save that and it works perfect in our test works and we are good to incorporate our new composable function.
So let's return back to sub nav and we can import our new composable function.
So right here, I'm just going to place it right here.
I'm going to import use, filter jobs.
It is a named export, so we do need curly braces.
So use filter jobs that is going to come from the source directory store.
Composable is basically the file I have on the right hand side.
And now we know that we need a constant here called a filter jobs or at least a name called filter jobs
because that's what we're using right here.
So instead of calculating it on these two lines, I'm going to comment this out so we can compare the
before and after.
And right here, const filter jobs.
We technically don't even have to keep this name, but for now, let's keep it since our template has
it.
And what am I going to do?
I'm just simply going to invoke the use filter jobs composable function.
We don't even have to provide any additional arguments because this function has everything it needs
to do its job.
It's just going to talk to the store.
It's going to access the right property of getters in a store.
It's going to access the right names constant or the right getter name.
In other words, on that getters object.
And it's going to wrap it in its own reactivity so that whenever it changes, our seventh component
will be alerted.
So with that, we can remove our former two lines here.
So now we have two simple lines that are using two composable functions.
They're each getting a return value, which are then returning as properties on this object.
Very simple, very clean.
In fact, I can probably even remove this line break to show you how simple our setup method is.
That also means that we no longer need computed a new store right here, since that logic is now in
our composable function.
So remove that, scroll up and there we go.
This is a very beautiful, clean, simple, elegant, well-tested view component.
Look how simple and beautiful and elegant.
Our composition API syntax, coupled with the availability of composition functions, are saying composable
functions.
How easy that has made it, how easy that has made it for us to write clean set of methods and also
to extract common reusable logic to separate smaller functions in the code base.
If there's any other component that needs our filter jobs getter, which there definitely is in this
code base, it's as simple as importing this helper composable function and importing it once and using
it once in our setup method.
And we gain the exact same benefits as this component does.
And we've isolated that logic of talking to the store right here.
We don't have to worry about use store, we don't have to worry about computed, we don't have to worry
about the getters property or the exact name of the getter.
It's all isolated and locked away in this file, ready to be reused in as many components as we need.
That is the beauty of the composition API, and that is the beauty of composable functions.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.